RMASBench: Multi-Agent Coordination Benchmark
=============================================

Esse é um repositório secundário do RMASBench, uma plataforma para avaliação de algoritmos de coordenação multiagente em cenários de desastre urbano.
Parte do código-fonte disponibilizado aqui foi obtido no repositório oficial do [RMASBench](https://github.com/RMASBench/RMASBench.git).
Adicionalmente, foi adicionado o modelo de formação de grupos pela minimização da distância (FGMD) que é otimizado com o algoritmo Binary Max-Sum desenvolvido por Pujol-Gonzalez.

Além do FGMD, nesse repositório pode ser obtido todo o código-fonte do RMASBench, core do RoboCup Rescue e os algoritmos DSA, Max-Sum e Binary Max-Sum, contudo sugere-se verificar o repositório oficial para novas modificações.

Requisitos
------------

Todo o software na plataforma RSLBench é escrito em *java 1.7*. Portanto, para compilá-lo e executá-lo pode ser necessário ter o *java 1.7* instalado e configurado como plataforma java default. Você pode verificar a versão em uso através do comando `java -version` no terminal. Também é necessário ter `maven` e `ant` instalado no sistema para compilar as diferentes bibliotecas.

O software funciona tanto em *Max OS X 10.7* com a *Oracle JDK*, e *Ubuntu GNU/linux* com *OpenJDK*. Infelizmente, nenhuma versão do windows é suportada até o momento.

Instalação
------------

Faça o checkout desse repositório e todos os submóduos no seu computador:

    git clone --recursive https://github.com/phdabel/RMASBench.git

Você terá um diretório RMASBench contendo 4 subdiretórios (projetos):

- **BinaryMaxSum.** 
    Biblioteca que implementa uma versão do Binary MaxSum, incluindo fatores especiais (tractable high order potentials), cujas mensagens podem ser calculadas de forma mais eficiente.

- **Maxsum.**
    Biblioteca que implementa a versão tradicional do MaxSum.

- **RSLB2.**
    Ferramenta principal da plataforma RMASBench. É onde a maior parte do trabalho e dos testes acontecerá, permitindo uma interface fácil com a plataforma de simulação RoboCup Rescue.

- **BlockadeLoader.**
    Simulador adicional que carrega as definições de bloqueios dos arquivos dos mapas, criando-os no início da simulação.

- **roborescue**
    A plataforma de simulação de agentes de resgate RoboCup Rescue.

Todo o software deve ser compilado antes de estar pronto para execução. Isso pode ser feito usando `ant` adequadamente em cada subdiretório:

    cd RMASBench
    cd BinaryMaxSum; mvn -DskipTests package; cd ..
    cd MaxSum; ant jar; cd ..
    cd roborescue; ant oldsims jars; cd ..
    cd BlockadeLoader; ant jar; cd ..
    cd RSLB2; ant jar; cd ..

Se tudo compilar bem (você pode ignorar os warnings, porém não os errors!), você estará pronto para começar a testar.

Uso
---

Normally, you will run experiments from within the *RSLB2/boot* folder. Get into that folder and check out the launcher's options:

    cd RSLB2/boot
    ./start.sh -h

You can now launch an example scenario using any of the included algorithms. When testing, include the `-v` flag to enable the simulation viewer. For example, you can run the example scenario with the included example experiment configuration by running:

    ./start.sh -v -c example -m paris -s example-nopolice

This will start a simulation of the example paris scenario without blockades nor police forces. Alternatively, you can run with the police forces and blockades enabled by running the following (notice the `-b` switch which enables blockades, as well as the change of the scenario file to use):

    ./start.sh -v -b -c example -m paris -s example-police

**Warning:** The first time you run a scenario of a map (default is "paris"), the simulator will pre-compute a number of things about the map. This process takes a lot of time (up to one hour depending on your machine), during which you will see the progress on the terminal where you launched the simulation from.

When the simulation finishes, you get a results file for each of the algorithms in your experiment. The paths to these results files are displayed in the terminal (right after all agents finish connecting).


Results file format
-------------------

Each of the results file generated by a simulation run follows the same format. First, there are a number of entries at the beginning that specify the configuration settings used to produce the results. There is one setting per line, and the line format is:

    # setting = value

Next, there is a single line that contains the column names for the actual results. The columns are:

- time: simulation time
- nOnceBurned: number of buildings that have been on fire at any point during the simulation
- nBurning: number of buildings currently burning
- iterations: number of iterations done by the solver (if you setup multiple solvers, there's a separate output file for each of them. As you can see, the file itself contains the solver name to which these results belong)
- NCCCs: number of operations done by the solver
- MessageNum: total number of messages sent by the solver in this simulation step (time)
- MessageBytes: total number of bytes sent by the solver in this simulation step
- OtherNum: number of additional messages sent by the solver (this is weird, used only by max-sum)
- OtherBytes: number of additional bytes sent by the solver (same as above)
- final: utility value achieved by the solver in the last of its iteration
- best: best utility value achieved by the solver in any of its iterations
- final_greedy: utility value obtained by greedy-improving the final solution above
- best_greedy: utility value obtained by greedy-improving the best solution above
- utilities: list of the utilities obtained by the solver at each of its iterations
- score: simulation score at this point in time
- utility: utility obtained by the simulator on the actual used configuration (one of the above, the settings will tell you which of them is being used)
- violations: number of "hard constraint violations". Useless information because there are no hard constraints anymore.
- solvable: also useless
- cpu_time: total time (in ms) employed by this solver at this simulation step

Finally there are the actual results, shown as one line (row) per simulation step.


Troubleshooting
---------------

RMASBench can generate very detailed logs about what is happening within the simulation. Nonetheless, most of that information is hidden by the default logging configuration. Hence, when something goes wrong and you need to figure out what is happening, you can increase the logging level to help diagnose the problem. To do that, modify the "RSLB2/supplement/log4j2.xml" file. This is a standard `log4j2` configuration file which you can customize at your will. For instance, if you want to get all the debug output for the entire RSLBench project (NOT the kernel or other simulators), then comment out this lines:

```xml
    <logger name="RSLBench.Algorithms.BMS" level="INFO" />
    <logger name="RSLBench.Algorithms.DSA" level="INFO" />
```

and change INFO to DEBUG here:

```xml
    <logger name="RSLBench" level="INFO" />
```

Developing your coordination algorithm in RMASBench
---------------------------------------------

You can develop your coordination algorithm in RMASBench by using the coordination API.
This [pdf](https://github.com/RMASBench/RSLB2/raw/master/docs/rmas_benchmark.pdf) document provides some (outdated) info on how to do this. Hence, it is probably better if you look at how current algorightms are implemented (greedy and random are especially easy to grasp).
